= Ruby Dropbox Gem

An easy-to-use third-party interface to the RESTful Dropbox API.

== Installation

 gem install dropbox

== Tutorial by Example

First things first: Be sure you've gotten a consumer key and secret from
http://developers.dropbox.com

 # STEP 1: Authorize the user
 session = Dropbox::Session.new('your_consumer_key', 'your_consumer_secret')
 puts "Visit #{session.authorize_url} to log in to Dropbox. Hit enter when you have done this."
 gets
 session.authorize
 session.mode = :dropbox

 # STEP 2: Play!
 session.upload('testfile.txt', 'Photos')
 uploaded_file = session.file('testfile.txt')
 puts uploaded_file.metadata.size

 session.move 'Photos/testfile.txt', 'Public/'
 session.delete('Public/testfile.txt')

== Tutorial by Example, Rails Edition

A simple Rails controller that allows a user to first authorize their Dropbox
account, and then upload a file to their Dropbox.

 class DropboxController < ApplicationController
   def authorize
     if params[:oauth_token] then
       dropbox_session = Dropbox::Session.deserialize(session[:dropbox_session])
       dropbox_session.authorize(params)
       session[:dropbox_session] = dropbox_session.serialize # re-serialize the authenticated session

       redirect_to :action => 'upload'
     else
       dropbox_session = Dropbox::Session.new('your_consumer_key', 'your_consumer_secret')
       session[:dropbox_session] = dropbox_session.serialize
       redirect_to dropbox_session.authorize_url(:oauth_callback => url_for(:action => 'authorize'))
     end
   end

   def upload
     return redirect_to(:action => 'authorize') unless session[:dropbox_session]
     dropbox_session = Dropbox::Session.deserialize(session[:dropbox_session])
     return redirect_to(:action => 'authorize') unless dropbox_session.authorized?

     if request.method == :post then
       dropbox_session.upload params[:file], 'My Uploads'
       render :text => 'Uploaded OK'
     else
       # display a multipart file field form
     end
   end
 end

== Features and Where to Find Them

* Start with the Dropbox::Session class. The first thing you should do is
  authenticate your users and that class is how to do it.
* The Dropbox::API module (attached to the Dropbox::Session class) is the meat
  and potatoes. Use it to modify a user's Dropbox.
* The Dropbox::Entry class is a more object-oriented way of manipulating files.
  It's totally optional; check it out if you like OOP.
* The Dropbox::Memoization module has some handy utility methods for memoizing
  server responses to reduce network calls. It's plug-in compatible with any
  caching strategy you might already have (memcache, etc.).
* If you're using pingbacks, check out Dropbox::Event and Dropbox::Revision.
  Those classes parse pingbacks from Dropbox into Ruby objects.

== Testing Your Code

The gem is fully specced. Run specs with +rake spec+. Before doing so, you will
need to create a file called +keys.json+ in the project root containing your
Dropbox API key and secret, as well as the email and password for a Dropbox
account. See the +keys.json.example+ file to get started.

fguillen has implemented a mock of the Dropbox API server:
http://github.com/fguillen/DummyDropbox

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
  bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Tim Morgan. See LICENSE for details.
